[Documentation] Adding Playground CLI page and removing wp-now references (#2337)
WordPress/wordpress-playground: packages/docs/site/docs/developers/05-local-development/04-wp-playground-cli.md

## Quickstart

Running the Playground CLI is as simple as go to a command-line terminal and running:

```bash
npx @wp-playground/cli@latest server
```

The previous command, you only get a fresh WordPress, instance to test. Most of the developers want to see their work running, If this is your case, test a plugin or a theme. You can run the CLI on your project folder and run the Playground CLI with the `--auto-mount` flag:

``bash
cd my-plugin-or-theme-directory
npx @wp-playground/cli@latest server --auto-mount

````

### Choosing a WordPress Version

By default, the CLI loads the latest stable version of WordPress and PHP 8.0 due to its improved performance. To specify your preferred versions, you can use the flag `--wp=<version>` and `--php=<version>`:

```bash
npx @wp-playground/cli@latest server --wp=6.8 --php=8.4
````

### Mounting folders manually

Some projects have a specific structure that requires a custom configuration, for example, your repo contains all the files from the `/wp-content/` folder. So this scenario you can specify to the Plaground CLI you will mount your project from that folder using the flag `--mount`.

```bash

> npx @wp-playground/cli@latest server --mount=.:/wordpress/wp-content/plugins/

Reviewer: Nice! Just noticing we'll need to coordinate updating this with merging https://github.com/WordPress/wordpress-playground/pull/2281 as that will break some CLI BC.

```

### Loading Blueprints

> A way to bring the CLI playground to the next level is to integrate with Blueprints, which allows developers to set up the initial state from their WordPress instance. With the flag `--blueprint` the developer will be capable run a Playground with a custom inital state.

Reviewer: Nit: grammar. Let's run these through a grammar checker (maybe grammarly?) before reviewing,

Reviewer: let's also link to Blueprints docs

      },
      "options": {
        "activate": true
      }
    },
    {
      "step": "login",
      "username": "admin",
      "password": "password"
    },
  ]
}
```

```bash
npx @wp-playground/cli@latest server --blueprint=my-blueprint.json
```

## Command and Arguments

Playground CLI is simple, configurable, and unopinionated. You can set it up according
to your unique WordPress setup. With the Playground CLI, you can use the following top-level commands:

-   **`server`**: (Default) Starts a local WordPress server.
-   **`run-blueprint`**: Executes a Blueprint file without starting a web server.
-   **`build-snapshot`**: Builds a ZIP snapshot of a WordPress site based on a Blueprint.

The `server` command supports the following optional arguments:

-   `--port=<port>`: The port number for the server to listen on. Defaults to 9400.
-   `--outfile`: When building, write to this output file.
-   `--wp=<version>`: The version of WordPress to use. Defaults to the latest.
-   `--auto-mount`: Automatically mount the current directory (plugin, theme, wp-content, etc.).
-   `--mount=<mapping>`: Manually mount a directory (can be used multiple times). Format: /host/path:/vfs/path

> -   `--mount-before-install`: Mount a directory to the PHP runtime before WordPress installation (can be used multiple times). Format: `"/host/path:/vfs/path"`.

Reviewer: Let's mention why that matters (when you want to use your local WordPress files or install WordPress in a local directory and access its files later). I'm thinking of renaming these options to `--mount-before-install` and `--mount-after-install` [in the CLI PR](https://github.com/WordPress/wordpress-playground/pull/2281)

---
title: Playground CLI
slug: /developers/local-development/wp-playground-cli
---

# Playground CLI

> [@wp-playground/cli](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@wp-playground/cli) is the new command-line tool designed to simplify the development and testing flow. It runs a WordPress instance locally with Playground, and with the CLI, it is possible to auto-mount an environment with a plugin, theme, or WordPress installation. But if you need flexibility, the CLI supports mounting commands to personalize your local environment.

Reviewer 2: It's been around for a year, I wouldn't call it new.

> [@wp-playground/cli](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@wp-playground/cli) is the new command-line tool designed to simplify the development and testing flow. It runs a WordPress instance locally with Playground, and with the CLI, it is possible to auto-mount an environment with a plugin, theme, or WordPress installation. But if you need flexibility, the CLI supports mounting commands to personalize your local environment.

Reviewer 2: I found this sentence hard to read. Would something like this be work?

```suggestion
[@wp-playground/cli](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@wp-playground/cli) is a command-line tool that simplifies the WordPress development and testing flow.
Playground CLI supports auto-mounting a directory with a plugin, theme, or WordPress installation. But if you need flexibility, the CLI supports mounting commands to personalize your local environment.
```

**Key features:**

-   **Quick Setup**: Set up a local WordPress environment in seconds.

> -   **Flexibility**: Allows for configuration to adapt to different scenarios

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
-   **Flexibility**: Allows for configuration to adapt to different scenarios.
```

> -   **Simple Environment**: No extra configuration, just a compatible Node installation, and you are ready to use it.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
-   **Simple Environment**: No extra configuration, just a compatible Node version, and you are ready to use it.
```

## Requirements

The Playground CLI requires Node.js 20.18 or higher, which is the recommended Long-Term Support (LTS) version. You can download it from the [Node.js website](https://nodejs.org/en/download).

## Quickstart

> Running the Playground CLI is as simple as go to a command-line terminal and running:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Running the Playground CLI is as simple as go to a command-line and run:
```

```bash
npx @wp-playground/cli@latest server
```

![Playground CLI in Action](./_assets/npx-wp-playground-server.gif)

> The previous command, you only get a fresh WordPress, instance to test. Most of the developers want to see their work running, If this is your case, test a plugin or a theme. You can run the CLI on your project folder and run the Playground CLI with the `--auto-mount` flag:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
With the previous command, you only get a fresh WordPress instance to test. Most of the developers want to see their work running. If this is your case, test a plugin or a theme. You can run the CLI on your project folder and run the Playground CLI with the `--auto-mount` flag:
```

```

### Choosing a WordPress and PHP Version

By default, the CLI loads the latest stable version of WordPress and PHP 8.0 due to its improved performance. To specify your preferred versions, you can use the flag `--wp=<version>` and `--php=<version>`:

```bash
npx @wp-playground/cli@latest server --wp=6.8 --php=8.4
```

### Loading Blueprints

One way to take your Playground CLI development experience to the next level is to integrate with [Blueprints](/blueprints/getting-started/). For those unfamiliar with this technology, it allows developers to configure the initial state for their WordPress Playground instances.

Using the `--blueprint=<blueprint-address>` flag, developers can run a Playground with a custom initial state. We’ll use the example below to do this.

**(my-blueprint.json)**

```bash
{
  "landingPage": "/wp-admin/options-general.php?page=akismet-key-config",
  "steps": [
    {
      "step": "installPlugin",
      "pluginData": {
        "resource": "wordpress.org/plugins",
        "slug": "akismet"
      },
      "options": {
        "activate": true
      }
    },
    {
      "step": "login",
      "username": "admin",
      "password": "password"
    },
  ]

> }

Reviewer 2: We can keep the Blueprint simple.

```suggestion
{
  "landingPage": "/wp-admin/options-general.php?page=akismet-key-config",
  "login": true, 
  "plugins": [
    "hello-dolly",
    "https://raw.githubusercontent.com/adamziel/blueprints/trunk/docs/assets/hello-from-the-dashboard.zip"
  ]
}
```

```

CLI command loading a blueprint:

```bash
npx @wp-playground/cli@latest server --blueprint=my-blueprint.json
```

### Mounting folders manually

Some projects have a specific structure that requires a custom configuration; for example, your repository contains all the files in the `/wp-content/` folder. So in this scenario, you can specify to the Playground CLI that it will mount your project from that folder using the `--mount` flag.

```bash

> npx @wp-playground/cli@latest server --mount=.:/wordpress/wp-content/plugins/

Reviewer 2: This would mount the current folder as the `/wordpress/wp-content/plugins/` folder. Let's use a more common use case.

```suggestion
npx @wp-playground/cli@latest server --mount=.:/wordpress/wp-content/plugins/MY-PLUGIN-DIRECTORY
```

```

### Mounting before WordPress installation

> Consider mounting your WordPress project files before the WordPress installation begins. This approach is beneficial if you have local files with custom functionalities, like a `SQLite` database, or if you're connecting Playground with `WP-CLI`. The `--mount-before-install` flag supports this process.

Reviewer 2: I'm not sure that I understand this.

The reason why you would use `mount-before-install` is to override the Playground boot process.

Typical examples would be mounting a full WordPress directory and skipping the WordPress installation using `--skip-wordpress-setup`.

```bash
npx @wp-playground/cli@latest server --mount-before-install=.:/wordpress/
```

:::info
On Windows, the path format `/host/path:/vfs/path` can cause issues. To resolve this, use the flags `--mount-dir` and `--mount-dir-before-install`. These flags let you specify host and virtual file system paths in an alternative format`"/host/path"` `"/vfs/path"`.
:::

> ## Command and Arguments

Reviewer 2: Is there something in Docusaurus that would enable us to auto-generate this section? I'm concerned about it getting outdated.
